# pymoo-CFD

## Build Anaconda Environment
Create a new conda environment with Python 3.7 installed and numPy.
Next activate the environment, so we can continue the build.  
```bash
conda create -n pymoo-CFD python==3.7 numpy
conda activate pymoo-CFD
```

#### pymoo Installation
Next install pymoo using pip.
Please see pymoo.org for future installation instructions if modules do not compile and latest updates.
Pymoo will run without modules compiled just slower.

```bash
pip install -U pymoo
````

https://pymoo.org/installation.html

#### GMSH Installation
GMSH is the recommended meshing software for use with pymoo-CFD.
GMSH offers a well-developed python application programming interface (API).
This makes communication between pymoo and the meshing software straightforward
when setting up optimization problems with geometric parameters that require re-meshing the domain.

The latest version of GMSH can be install using pip or directly from gmsh.info homepage.  
```bash
pip install --upgrade gmsh
```
Please refer to gmsh.info for future installation instructions and the latest updates on the software.
As with pymoo this software is actively being developed.


#### Jupyter Notebook Installation
Jupyter Notebook offers an excellent way to pre/post-process the optimization problems
and CFD simulations.

First add conda-forge as a channel on anaconda.
This is a GitHub organization containing repositories of conda recipes.
Next install jupyter notebook using the conda-forge channel.
```bash
conda config --add channels conda-forge
conda install -c conda-forge notebook
```
Finally, install ipykernel and set up the pymoo-CFD conda environment as a kernel in Jupyter Notebook.
This will allow you to use the pymoo-CFD environment for your post-processing python notebooks.
```bash
conda install -c anaconda ipykernel
python -m ipykernel install --user --name=pymoo-CFD
```
To launch Jupyter Notebook with conda environemnt configured use the command:
```bash
jupyter notebook
```

### Dask installation

```bash
conda install dask-jobqueue -c conda-forge
```



#### Other Packages
Any other packages needed should be installed in the conda environment using the command:
```bash
conda install -c <channel> <package>
```
where the channels we have set up so far are 'conda-forge' or the default 'anaconda'.
The package could be something like 'h5py' which is used for post-processing YALES2 simulations.
```bash
conda install h5py
```

```bash
sudo apt-get install graphviz
pip install diagrams
```

Remember that the pymoo-CFD environment should be active during this build.

## Workflow
### Create New Case
- Copy template case

- Replace contents of base_case folder with all necessary execution files for base simulation.
  These files will be what pyMOO munipulates to conduct optimization study.
  It is important for later to know where the parameter values you wish to optimize are located in these files.

- Open pymooIN.py and edit the variables at the top of the file.
  - n_gen: number of generations before termination
  - n_var: number of variables   
  - xu: upper limits of variables   
  - n_obj: number of objectives

    Define your design space (the variables/parameters being studied).
  Define your number of objectives (n_obj) and the number of constraints on the objective space.
  If there are constraints on the objective space make sure to define them as functions that are less than 0 when constraint is violated.
  See https://pymoo.org/getting_started.html for more details on constraints including normalization procedure.

- Before queuing your slurm job (or however you are running pymooExec.py) run 'python makeClean.py' from inside the case directory.
  - makeClean.py: removes files generated by previous pyMOO runs, cleans up base_case folder and changes jobslurm.sh working directory, job-name and #SBATCH --nodes
    using the input from pymooIN.py


### Restart Case
Most likely there will be many errors to work when implementing a new pyMOO-CFD study.
Make sure to run 'python makeClean.py' from inside your case directory to remove all files generated by previous run.
makeClean.py will also adjust

WARNING: population size will not update when restarting from checkpoint.npy


# References

Thesis Advisor: Dr. Yves Dubief, University of Vermont, https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=nE7d3OkAAAAJ&hl=en


PyMOO - Multi-objective Optimization in Python
pymoo.org

@ARTICLE{pymoo,
    author={J. {Blank} and K. {Deb}},
    journal={IEEE Access},
    title={Pymoo: Multi-Objective Optimization in Python},
    year={2020},
    volume={8},
    number={},
    pages={89497-89509},
}


https://www.coria-cfd.fr/index.php/YALES2
